# Miraweb Phone Instrument

**Patch requires the Miraweb (not to be confused with Mira) max package to be installed on the computer in which it is being used**

The concept of the patch involved wanting to use a few of the many sensors most modern smartphones have inside of them. Smartphones actually have quite a lot of sensors in them, but for the patch I only used three of them. These were the touch screen sensor, the accelerometer, and the gyroscope.The patch gives you an address you can go to in your phone which sends the data straight to the patch and allows you to control the patch from the phone. (Note: Both the phone and the computer need to be connected to the same network).

The audio that the data is altering comes from three different sources. A 5-step sequencer, a simple polyphonic synthesizer and a simple FM synthesizer. When you open up the address on the phone you end up with 5 tabs in the webpage that give you access to control each of these little modules. The first tab that shows up has some buttons that let you turn off instances of the simple polyphonic synth. The second, called AudioOut has three sliders, each controlling the amplitude of each of the modules. And then you have the sequencer, the polyphonic synth, and the FM synth in the next three tabs. The sequencer is divided into three rows with five columns; each square corresponds to a step in the step sequencer. Each row contains a different sample, that begins to vary based on finger X and Y position by changing the start and end points of the sample. The first finger on the screen controls the bottom row, the second finger the middle row, and the third finger the top row. Previous fingers need to stay on the screen while moving the second and third fingers in order for it to work, otherwise if you only have one finger, that one will turn into finger one. You can swipe down to turn the sequencer on and off and shake the phone to use the accelerometer to vary the tempo. 

The polyphonic synth takes in tap information in order to play 5 note scales. Each square acts as one of the notes from the scale. It goes up in pitch moving from right to left with the lower right square being the lowest note and the upper left square being the highest. Notes build up in to arpeggios which can be turned on and off using the buttons from the first tab. Same as with the sequencer, you can shake the phone to start switching between slightly different tempos as well as scales. Using 3 fingers at the same time and stretching them apart opens up a flanger effect, while swiping down turns the arpeggio on/off. 

The FM synth then takes data from the touch screen, accelerometer and gyroscope to determine things such as frequency, harmonicity ration and modulation index. There are two instances of the FM synth. The first finger activates the first instance and the second finger activates the second. The third finger then changes the speed at which the notes are triggered. The gyroscope then affects the pitch of both instances of the FM synthesizer while also setting the maximum value for the envelope controlling the modulation index. Strecthing out three fingers opens up the reverb.

The patch itself contains all the instructions on how to use it as well. The patch recordings folder contains audio files of a few recordings made using the phone instrument.
